Right item Bushy home
At the end of a long day.
And you're the last, last
item of business for this committee.
So you gotta bring the fun.
Um, yeah. Sorry I didn't bring sugar or something.
Yeah. For you, sort of per you up a bit. Yeah.
Worry. But
It has been a long day.
I'm very aware of that.
Yeah. Thank you, minister. So, um, your team is settled.
Uh, we have, uh, one hour with you.
So if you would like to start by some opening remarks, uh,
keeping up for around four minutes,
that would be good. Yeah. Look,
Uh, thank you very much, and chair, thank you
for the opportunity to be with you this afternoon.
I'm, and I'm very conscious that you've had,
uh, a, a long day.
Um, look, I've been, um, uh, privileged to be the minister
for a little less than four months.
So it's fair to say that it's been a relatively
steep learning curve.
And you'll be aware of the, uh, um, work program
that, uh, I inherited from my predecessor.
So I should just say I've got, uh, Paul
and Carolyn here from, uh, the, from MB
that are here supporting me.
And also there are, um, team members, uh, behind as well.
So we'll see how we go in terms of answering, uh, questions.
But look, the, uh, commerce
and consumer affairs portfolio is a really
important portfolio.
Uh, at its essence, we are all consumers.
We are all members of the, uh, economy, the ecosystem.
Every time we go and buy a cup of coffee in ACON at a cafe,
we are consumers.
We are engaged. And so the work
that is done in the portfolio can often seem to those of us
that, um, may have been on the outside of it, some of
that detailed work can sometimes sound a bit dry
and a bit, um, uh, precise.
Uh, and sometimes the language that is used in terms
of the legislation
and also the jargon of the various sectors can also be, um,
a little bit, uh, sometimes dry to those people
who aren't familiar with it.
So, um, one of the key concerns
for me in this role is actually, um, the, um, uh,
focus on what's good for consumers.
How do we make the regulatory, uh, legislative, uh,
and e economic, uh, drivers that, uh,
impact us all every day?
How can we make those easier, more efficient, um,
and, uh, providing better outcomes for New Zealanders?
So, I want to just mention a couple of the key areas
that are currently on my work program, uh,
and then I'll be very happy to take, uh, questions from you.
So there are, um, a number of key things
that we've, uh, progressed.
Uh, one of them is the Credit Contracts
and Consumer Finance Act.
Um, the streamlining of, uh, conduct
of financial institutions.
Uh, and some of these changes are designed
to remove unnecessary regulation
and ensure adequate protections for our most, uh,
vulnerable consumers.
So, uh, there are bills currently
before the select committee now,
and, um, they include the contracts of insurance,
the customer and data products
that has actually already been passed.
Uh, that's the, um, uh, so-called open banking legislation.
Um, I've just had a meeting with, uh, uh, a FinTech company
that is really looking forward to the opportunities
that will be available to New Zealanders, uh, shortly,
hopefully, um, uh, just
before Christmas, the big banks
are gonna have to be ready for that.
The smaller second tier banks, uh, get a, an opportunity
to be a little bit later.
That's more to do with resourcing than anything else.
The bigger banks, uh,
have literally more resource available to them.
But I'm very excited about that, uh, opportunity.
And unless New Zealanders have actually lived overseas
or traveled overseas and seen the positive impact, um,
of various fintechs, I really won't have an understanding
or an idea of what it all means until they kind of see it in
and it's kind of real, uh,
and it has meaning in their, in their lives.
Um, the other area that I want
to talk about just briefly at the moment is, um,
my role in this portfolio, in terms
of the government's lead, uh,
minister on antis scam activity.
I have to be careful to put the ante in front of it.
I've been a couple of occasions when I've been introduced
as the Minister for Scams.
Um, and, um, that's, uh, a little bit problematic.
So, um, we just have to get the, uh,
the jargon right on that.
But, um, we all know
that too many New Zealanders are being scammed.
The quantum, um, is hard to actually, uh, define,
but, uh, at its very minimum, it runs into hundreds
of millions of dollars a year at its upper level.
It could be as high as $2 billion a year.
Uh, and we are all susceptible to it.
Um, and so I'm hoping
that someone will ask me a question about that,
because I don't want to spend too much time talking about
it, um, uh, right now in my introductory comments.
Uh, but there is still much work to do.
Uh, I'm very grateful for the work that, um,
MB officials are doing in terms
of a whole range of, of work.
And one of the things that I have been immediately impressed
by in the short time
that I have been in this ministerial role,
is the capable professional, uh, and,
and at pace ability of MB officials to work in areas
that are actually quite complicated, quite technical,
and also areas that, um, have, uh,
an impact literally on the day-to-day
lives of all New Zealanders.
Even if those New Zealanders don't necessarily, uh,
understand, uh, how that work impacts on them.
They feel it and see it, uh, as I say,
when they're, when they're there.
So, look, um, uh, the other piece of work I just wanted
to mention is, um, the company's act, uh, there's a,
a company's act has not been reviewed
for a long number of years.
It's largely a piece of legislation
that was based on an analog, uh, view of the world.
Um, and, uh, as you know,
we now live in a very digitized world.
And so we need to update, upgrade
and modernize our companies at.
So, look, that's just a bit of a snapshot.
Um, Madam Chair, I'm very happy to, uh, take questions
and I will be ablely assisted by, uh,
colleagues should the need arise.
So, thank you, Madam Chair. Thank
You. Thank you, minister. We'll
start
with Ena Williams, Madam Chair.
Thank you. I have, um, a primary
and then three steps to this question.
And thank you, minister, for coming in.
Um, a lot has changed.
Oh, sorry. Can I just, um, sorry,
there was something I needed to say.
Go ahead. Sorry to interrupt you, that I was in my notes,
and I should have mentioned it, is that I am precluded
because of a conflict to discuss matters relating
to grocery or the grocery sector.
So that's just for the, for the record.
Thank you. Thank you. Understand that.
And, um, we don't have time with your officials
after this, so I might put questions that you, you are free
to, um, ask your officials to help you with, um,
in the interest of this committee, scrutinizing the vote.
Um, but minister, let's start with some of the things
that have changed since the last time this committee was
able to undertake scrutiny of the vote appropriation to do
with policy advice in this vote.
Um, I want to understand why, uh, since the dis
September, 2024 cabinet paper warning against retrospective
changes to the CCFA because of legal
and constitutional risk, what changed
and who decided to rewrite the law to deprive a NZ
and ASBS customers of their day in court
for that issue? Mm-hmm.
So you are referring to the proposed changes in the ccc,
um, fa, um, and that's, uh, a matter that is now
before select committee.
Uh, but there are some, I think, uh,
justified reasons why the unusual aspect
of retrospective tivity is being considered
by the select committee and ultimately the parliament.
And that's to do with an historic, um, uh, gap
that exists in the legislation that dates from an amendment
that was made to the Principal Act in 2015.
Mm-hmm. Uh,
and that at that stage that, um, prescribed, uh,
harsh, uh, well, sorry,
it prescribed a strict liability regime in terms of errors
and omissions from by lenders.
Uh, and then it further imposed, uh,
what was effectively a strict liability penalty regime, uh,
for those errors and omissions.
Now, uh, that has potentially very significant
prudential impacts, uh, for what may be quite minor
or even non-consequential errors
or omissions, uh, made now, um, uh,
a previous government acknowledged, uh, that it was an issue
and corrected that problem, uh, in 2019.
That's right. Um, and
so the 2019 position is the existing law for matters
that have occurred post 2019,
but there are some situations, um, current
and also potential that occurred between 2015 and 2019,
and it's that aspect that, um,
the legislation seeks to address.
Hmm. So it's, it's historic.
Um, and yes, I accept that, uh, retrospective, uh,
is unusual, but it's not completely unknown when there is,
um, uh, justification.
So, uh, I'll be watching carefully to see
what the submissions are at select committee, um,
and then ultimately what the recommendations are
of the select committee as they report back to the house.
And minister, you're quite right to point
to the 2019 changes.
They were the same policy position
as they adopted in the cabinet paper from the 2014
government, which was then led by Bill English, um,
where the decision was that, um, relief wouldn't apply
to those customers from the 2015 to 2019 period.
Mr. My question here is, um, you've acknowledged
that Envy is working at pace in these areas,
which are technical.
They are very technical,
and they've been put to the Prime Minister
and also to you, I think on the 30th of May,
Heather Dey Allen put it to you, uh,
whether these changes were intended to apply to just
that period, or all of them,
and you made a mistake, then you've told me that yourself
and written parliamentary questions, and I acknowledge that.
Mm-hmm. Um, is this a mistake? No.
Has, has something ch Well, then
what has changed since the September, 2024 decision
that went to cabinet that proposed no retrospective
to 2015 and 2019?
Well, what I think has changed is
that there is a potential for very real prudential risk
to some of our, uh, lending institutions.
So this is not just, risk is different.
This is not just about banks.
This is about, um, all lending institu.
So it includes, for instance, um, um, um,
building societies, uh, credit unions, uh,
motor vehicle lending, uh, entities, uh, a whole range.
And it also includes, of course, our second
and third tier banks.
Uh, and so the issues that are, uh,
being addressed in the proposed legislation, uh, address,
address those, those matters.
Um, uh, I'm, uh, relaxed at this point.
I wanna see what the select committee is, uh, says,
and that, and that's ultimately why this matter
is going to a select committee.
That's why it's, that's the purpose of,
of a parliamentary parliamentary process
to tease out these, these issues.
I think that they are worthy of parliament's scrutiny, uh,
and, uh, I think that's, uh, a good thing
to have in a functioning participatory democracy like ours.
Uh, I think these are issues that should be tested.
I agree. Thank you. And grateful for that commitment
to the full, um, select committee process,
which it's going on now.
Um, in, in that vein, uh, have you met with
or, or officials or your colleagues, uh, with a NZ
and A SB about this legislation
after the public consultation closed, um, in relation to
that 2024 September cabinet paper?
And were consumer advocates excluded from those extra
meetings that happened afterwards?
Uh, no. Look, I meet with, uh, a wide range
of stakeholders and sector players, including banks.
But on this matter, I have not met with them.
They, those are matters that have not been raised
with committee, and nor have I raised that
with them, and nor should
I. So, yeah. Thank
you. So, can I say to members that, uh,
obviously this is within the board of, uh, the minister,
but, uh, this hearing is not about the
general policy discussion.
So if you could tie it to the estimates That's right.
And what is happening in the estimates
or the change of responsibilities,
how they're being shifted.
So if you want to bring your question back to that.
That's right. Um, this relates to the intentions
of the minister in terms of the,
his policy appropriation for this vote.
And so, just to close off this question from my perspective,
but I, I know my colleague might have some supplementaries.
Why should New Zealanders trust financial regulation when
some, a change like this can happen, uh,
when retrospective law change explicitly aims
to limit compensation for affected borrowers?
That's consumers, when these consumer penalties are designed
to protect exactly the kind
of consumers like the 180,000 people who are affected
by this change and will lose
thousands of dollars because of it.
Um, n no, that's not the purpose
of this proposed legislative change.
The purpose of this proposed legislative change is
to give the courts, uh, an opportunity
to provide a fair
and equitable outcome in terms of the cases
that are brought before them.
At the moment, that doesn't, that opportunity doesn't exist.
So, uh, it's about, uh, giving courts the discretion to come
to what is an appropriate, fair, and equitable decision.
It's not about what, um, I or politicians want.
Uh, it's about giving the courts that, uh, ability to come
to a fair, equitable, uh, uh, decision. All
Right. Again, I say to
members that, uh,
this is about the estimates,
so not about the general policy
discussion, uh, Iena Williams. Okay.
Point of what, can I just seek clarification?
Um, just, um, the standing orders, uh, were quite clear
that strategic intentions
and direction were as part of scrutiny week.
Yeah. So if there is a policy, um, that relates
to an estimate that can be discussed.
But here, the discussion is purely about,
no estimate has been referred here.
So if you talk about the credit regulations being moved
to FMA and that funding and how that is being prepared
or something like that, that would sit in there.
But when you are purely talking about the policy
and the decisions, why those policy decisions are being
made, that is going, uh, outside of
what we want to cover in this hearing. Thank you,
Madam Chair. That's a
helpful direction for the minister,
because what I'm asking is, what has changed?
What advice changed his mind from the decisions
of three successive cabinets, two
of them National party led cabinets that decided
that the courts had the appropriate power
to use the discretion, both with the de minimis test
and with the test that grants them discretion
to award these sorts of breaches in this sort
of circumstance, and they didn't need extra power? Well,
I, I received a wide range of advice
and on balance, I think this is a matter
that is worth testing, uh, in the parliament
through select committee process,
through proposed legislation.
Okay. So, uh, I have a supplementary form, Dr.
Thank you, um, Madam Chair.
Um, and still regarding in this, um, budget allocation
for commerce and key Tumor affairs, um,
with the triple CFA changes that have been made, um,
can you explain to us a little bit more about how some
of those changes can make it easier for Kiwis
to access credit and
therefore contribute to economic activity?
Well, um, one of it's a, it's a,
it's a good, uh, question.
So one of the, um, issues at the moment is that there are,
um, effectively two regulators.
Um, and so what we're gonna do under this proposed
legislation is create, um, a move that from ComCom to FMA,
uh, I think that's sensible and prudent.
Uh, there will be an opportunity for, um, uh, uh,
streamlining, uh, there'll only need one license.
The, the entities, uh, that will, uh, lead
to a more efficient, uh, uh, uh, less, uh, costly regime.
Uh, and I think that, uh,
actually FMA is probably the better agency
or regulator to, uh, to take on that, that role.
So, look, there are some, um, some opportunities
for New Zealanders to receive the benefits of that as they
as, as they, um, evolve and mature.
Um, and I think that's an exciting, exciting opportunity.
So, um, uh, we'll, uh, see how that goes.
But, um, uh, removing the, uh,
liability on the provisions, uh, of, uh, directors
and senior managers is also a matter that is, is, is going
to help reduce cost.
Because at the, at the moment,
there are some very prescriptive personal
liabilities on directors
and senior managers, uh, that has a chilling effect.
Uh, what tends to happen then is that you get a, uh,
an overly, uh, conservative, uh,
and cautious approach
that actually just builds an extra extra cost.
So it doesn't mean that, uh, liability is absolved, it just,
it just refines the balance to, uh, I think a more,
a more appropriate, appropriate level.
So I hope that that answers some of the questions.
There are, um, some, uh, opportunities to streamline some
of the work that the FMA are doing as well.
Um, and so that'll benefit too. Great. Thank you.
Some of these are relatively small changes,
but they have a, a cumulative positive net effect.
Great. Uh, from Marina Williams, just
Say, yeah. Uh, couple
of follow up questions to that,
and broadly agree with what you're saying about the
FMA, doing a great job in this.
I, I agree with you. Um,
I'm interested in how that plays out.
But some of the feedback from the industry has been that,
um, just as Kofi is bidding in
and they're getting used to these regimes,
that there is now another raft of changes.
What are your expectations around continuity for that?
And, um, do you accept
that shifting liability from in individuals onto firms, um,
might benefit the bigger players,
might benefit the bigger banks at the expense
of the smaller players in the market?
Mm. I, I look the, there are a variety of views.
Um, what I've come
to learn very quickly in this portfolio is that, um, uh,
unanimity, uh,
of opinion on almost any matter is impossible.
Uh, so the, the, the kind of, the, the balance
that I'm seeking, and I know that my predecessors of sort
and I know that, uh, uh, future ministers will also have
to eventually, uh, at some point, uh, try
and juggle, is where are the sweet points?
Where, uh, is the best position in terms of gaining, uh,
administrative and, uh, uh,
functional efficiencies while at the same time providing the
necessary protections
and protocols that are going to ensure that, um,
new Zealanders can rely on their financial institutions, uh,
but at the same time, uh,
that they're not gonna get bogged down as well.
Uh, Paul, I wondered whether you might wanna have a quick
comment or Andy, maybe, 'cause this is an area
that is a constant struggle for us in terms of, um, finding
that, finding that, that sweet spot. Yeah.
Um, thanks minister. And Then Annie's gonna have a
Crack. We can both of go,
uh, I think the minister's right,
and there have been a, a number of changes, as you know,
the triple CFA as we've tried to fine tune it over the years
to get that balance between consumer protection,
but not have what we actually saw, which was a, uh,
a freezing of the, the con of the, the lending market.
And the interesting thing about that was that the,
whilst it's the consumer contracts, uh, finance Act,
it was also flowing through into small business
because in New Zealand, a number
of small business owners actually rely on personal credit
and mortgages and the like
to actually finance their, their firms.
So what we found that we were having unintended
consequences, uh, as a result
of the Triple CFA over the years.
I think the changes, uh, a couple of, uh,
things about the changes, uh, the movement
to the FMA is intended
to make it a lot clearer about which regulator is
responsible for financial regulations.
And the FMA and ComCom Commerce Commission takes slightly
different approaches to their regulatory activities.
Uh, the Commerce Commission, um, is in,
I suppose in some ways a more traditional regulator
where they think about compliance
and enforcement and legal cases.
The financial markets authority does that as well,
but they also take quite a strong focus on, uh, education
and working alongside the industry, uh, which is something
that the Commerce Commission, it's
a little harder for them to do.
So in some ways, moving this to the, to the fmma is intended
to both, um, ensure that there's,
there's a strong regulatory, uh, compliance toolkit
that is applied by a strong regulator,
but is also working
with all the financial institutions across the range
of inventions that they do to lift their game.
So you don't have to use the stick of regulatory compliance
as much as you might otherwise have to.
Finally, the comment, uh, the minister made around, uh,
liabilities of officers and directors, uh, we have seen, uh,
that officer and director liability across a range of,
of regulatory systems is a very, very powerful tool.
Uh, but what it does do is drive a level
of risk averse behavior.
I'm a, I'm an officer, uh, in mb uh, so I, I know
that my personal behaviors
and things are different from the, from the organization.
And you can end up with a, uh, divergence
between the indivi actions
of individuals thinking about their personal liability
versus the actions of the organization consistent
with the law, which is trying to do lending.
And that's where that changes is trying to drive. And
I ask you just a question about that.
Can you please move the microphone forward so
that you can capture saying, I know from personal experience
that use acoustics in this use. Yeah.
It's terrible. Can I just
ask you a question about what you said?
Yeah. And agree with you.
Um, I was actually going to ask you a question about
how FMA is gonna get alongside, um,
but let me then, um, the way that, uh,
these changes are going to, um, impact the industry, um,
you know, a a different risk appetite is all well and good,
but are we gonna see lower borrowing costs flow through
to say, first time buyers?
Is that something that you're able to monitor?
Is it the minister's expectation of you
that you will have a sense of
how cost is saved for consumer?
So we would expect to see some efficiencies,
but I don't think that the triple CFA in itself is the
primary driver of, uh, borrowing costs.
You see that more in monetary policy.
Uh, I think what we'd see in a triple CFA
that wasn't calibrated properly is the inability
to access credit at any cost.
So that's really where we would see the change. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Alright. Uh, Paul, I, sorry, Andy, I think
To, just to add, add to that, um, point, mad Madam Chair.
I think the other thing, just in terms of, um, uh,
what we were, what we were seeing as well
with the triple CFA was that, um,
with the prescriptive regulations that banks
and lending institutions were required to comply with,
it was taking, uh, those institutions a very, very long time
to process, uh, loan applications.
And what that was meaning was
that it was putting competitive pressure on some
of the smaller lending institutions,
credit unions and, and so forth.
And so from a competition perspective, addressing that, um,
should, should help, uh, put pressure on lending
as well in terms of lending costs.
Good. We good to new primary from Ricardo?
Thank you. So this is future looking,
and it's in relationship to mbs, um, intend review
of the Fair Trading Act this year,
which we'll inevitably use staffing resources.
Um, and so I wanted to start by asking whether as part of
that there is any intention of, um,
looking at prohibiting the use of vehicle immobilizers
by car car financiers as part of any of these reviews?
Oh, you mean the, um, the actual, um, like, um,
turning off gear?
Yes. Um, I'm not sure there are.
So, so, um, I know we talked about last year about the,
um, the potential
for a Fair Trading Act review during, during this term.
So we're still in the process of, of scoping what
that review could, could look at.
Um, so we haven't made
Decisions what so far. Um,
what are you looking at so far in the scope,
Uh, that That should be determined
To be decided?
Can I ask on that? So, so you putting in a bid in, uh,
uh, that we should consider that
Precise, this has been raised by stakeholders?
Yes. Okay. And so, um, you know, if,
if their scope is still worked on Yeah.
Um, that is absolutely something I would encourage. Um,
It's still a work in progress,
so we'll make a note of that
As the minister intending then, um, as part of the work
that is still looking at, um,
that is being looked at in the scope to do any,
to take any action to better regulate buy now pay letter
and tell Prolongs as well.
Is that something that the minister intends
to look into in the next financial year?
Well, look, there's a, there's a lot of work being done.
Um, if you are keen to make, um, bids for
what should be included, I'm not having it.
I'm, I'm very happy to have that conversation.
Um, maybe not in this venue, but, um, uh,
because as I say, it's still very much, um,
you know, uh, we cement,
I, I just add too that the, um,
ministers work programs are demanding program anyway.
And actually this is a part of mb the policy team, um,
is the one that probably produces a substantial amount
of legislative change.
And so we just, um, always have this tension between
what we could put on the list
and what it is that we're already working on.
That's not to say that we don't have a longer list of things
that we would like to think about doing work on. That's
Question I may then pivot to. Alright.
Alright. A supplementary from Marina Williams.
If you don't indicate you have a supplementary,
then I move on to another member.
Okay. I'll just go back. In the primary event, seeing
as seeing as a corp hasn't been determined.
Hold on, hold on. I'm just gonna be hold
On. Know you have your supplementary.
Thank you
Very much. Yes. This
is a really important issue
and I hope we do come back to my colleague here.
But I wanted to follow up on the Immobilizers. Yes.
The immobilizers is a serious point
because it's not
something that would be new to your work program.
That's one of the reasons I am really enthusiastic about the
FMA, taking a more proactive role here.
They're known as a regulator
that gets alongside the industry
and has a good reputation with stakeholders.
It works with, is immobilizes something
that we will see the FMA working alongside auto loan
providers to work with?
Because that is clearly something
that doesn't meet the criteria of
responsible lending even as it is now. Mm-hmm.
I certainly haven't made any decision on that.
Um, but there is opportunity for more work to be done.
Okay. All right. Uh, from Dr.
Thank you Madam Chair. Um, given that you, um,
you've indicated, um, as well
as your officials, that you've got quite
A, so can you, would you mind, sorry, you've
Indicated quite a busy work program.
Um, so sorry. The, you've indicated
that you have a very busy work program.
Can you, um, help us to understand
what your priorities are in that work program?
Well, um, there are, um,
there's a, there's a lot on the go.
So, um, uh, one
of the key factors is competition, basically is how do we,
uh, have, uh, an economy that is competitive, uh,
and how can we make that, make sure
that there aren't perverse
and unintended consequences that arise from, um,
non-competitive, uh, factors within, within our economy.
So, um, uh, what the role of the, uh,
commerce Commission is, uh, you'll be aware
that there is a review
that I have recently received from Dame Paula restock into,
uh, the Commerce Commission.
I'm currently, uh, reviewing that
and I have more to, more to say about the outcome of
that review, um, in the not too distant future.
But the capital markets stuff is, uh, crucial
as a work priority for me.
Um, uh, how can we as a government, uh,
help ensure that there is easier access to capital so
that New Zealand businesses can grow and thrive?
Um, and how can we encourage, uh, a, a higher level
of commercial and entrepreneurial activity, uh, within, uh,
our broader economy?
So, um, things of that nature.
One of the key aspects I touched on in my introductory
comments is the whole open banking, uh, thing.
Uh, I'm enormously excited by,
by the potential in that space.
Um, we've got, um,
so the legislation was passed just towards the end of March.
And, uh, we are now in the process of formulating
and finalizing the regulations.
'cause they, they, the statute itself was really just a,
a framework, uh, uh, from which, um, bespoke regulations
for various sectors of the economy will hang off the,
off the framework, uh, the first, uh, framework to be, uh,
constructed as banking.
Um, and I'm very excited that, um, as I said earlier,
that we'll have the first signs of that
by Christmas this year.
Um, we've, uh, indicated that, uh, electricity,
the electricity sector is likely to be the, the next sector.
Uh, and then colleagues, I'm, um, open to bids about
what potential insurance, uh, there could be
for other sectors to frankly have the opportunity
to gain the benefits of more open customer data.
I mean, um, new Zealanders aren't by
and large familiar with environments where their
personal data is, um, uh, um, not so tightly held.
You know, banking institutions hold that data very tightly.
That's been the traditional model.
But for people who have traveled overseas
or indeed lived overseas, they will,
they'll be experiencing some of the benefits, uh, from that.
And, uh, as I say, I'm very excited to see what that'll be
that won't become tangible until, um, uh,
after, uh, we've, um, sort of, uh, uh, seen it
for ourselves until it it, until it's, until it's real.
And then the other area that is occupying an enormous amount
of my time at the moment, and it's so important
to New Zealand, it's just this antis scam stuff.
Yes. Um, that, uh, I, I doubt that there isn't,
there is a member sitting around this table that hasn't had,
um, either a phishing email or two,
or indeed one of these, um, text message sort of things.
I got one the other day, uh, it's, it, it said, um, hi mum,
I've, I've got a new cell phone number.
Bless, uh, please link on up with me on WhatsApp.
Um, and I knew it was a scam 'cause I'm not a mum,
but those, those are very common.
Okay. A new primary from Ricardo. My name is
Mark. Yeah. Thank you.
Just on the insurance point
of solution budget line.
And, um, while I totally acknowledge
that it was initially set up to deal
with the Christchurch earthquake, I did wanna ask when
making budget decisions, did you do any modeling around,
for example, the, um,
potential increase in a climate related, um, disasters?
Yeah, look, I'm gonna have to ask my colleagues
to answer it because I wasn't, uh, in the ministerial role
during the formative time of the, the budget, uh, proposal.
So maybe Andy or, or Paul. Yeah,
Thanks Mr. Uh, look,
uh, the claims resolution service, as you know,
was originally set up in the aftermath
of the Christchurch earthquakes.
Uh, and we did actually expand it a bit
when we had the floods.
Um, so it is very much a,
I suppose a on demand type program.
And what we've seen is that the nature of complex disputes
that required the support of the resolution services
that have declined, it's extraordinarily hard to forecast,
you know, by nature of those events, uh, to the extent
that we see them in the future
and we see more complex, uh, claims coming forward,
our expectation at that point, the government, if so,
if it's so sore foot, so chose to,
would increase the, the, the scheme in that case.
So it is very much trying to match, uh, spending
with demand, and it's just not one
of those things that you can forecast.
Did the minister at the time, um, uh,
seek advising relationship to the impact of climate change
and to potential, um, while I understand it can be difficult
to model, um, was that something
that was specifically sought by the minister when it comes
to advice on, um, uh, the funding on this?
No, no, it wasn't. We did discuss, well, uh, what are the,
the backlogs of claims at the moment, how are they looking,
what's happening in Auckland?
And there was nothing on the horizon at this stage.
As, as I say, there's another major event
that results in complex claims that are not easily resolved.
We'd expect them to,
to increase the funding to deal with that.
But didn't I, I'm sure I saw information recently
that showed the number of claims had
dropped dramatically. Yes, it
Has. Yes. It's, yeah,
which is one of the reasons
that the, the fund has dropped off.
But I think the, the member is asking
about modeling future events.
Yeah. I mean, 'cause this is the thing, right?
Like with extreme weather events
and our infrastructure deficit, um, a severe, like,
you know, we are seeing more severe floods
and there could be like the Auckland floods where, um,
something many of us, for example, didn't predict in 2023.
Um, minister, are you committed to, um, advocating
for additional funding on the insurance claim solution?
Should we see more climate, um,
charge extreme weather events
that may result in a greater demand look services? Um,
It, it's a, it's a good and fair question.
I have the great privilege of representing the Cor
Mandel electorate in this parliament.
It's an area that is geographically exposed
to heavy weather events.
Um, it has one of the longest coastlines
of any electorate in the country.
Um, and, um, uh, just as a local member of parliament,
let alone in my ministerial capacity, uh, those are issues
that are of significance to me personally
and also to my constituents.
So the short answer to your question is yes, as
and when need arises, um, uh, this government,
this coalition government, um,
and indeed any responsible government, of course, would be,
uh, open to those sorts of initiatives.
Mm-hmm. Are you confident that, um, this is something
that you as a minister can get through in, um,
this current government, considering that within your
Kevin Edge you do have climate
denial as rhetoric going around?
Um, are you confident that there will be, um,
that you will be supported as a minister to ensure
that the climate related events are taken seriously in
relationship to the, um, insurance,
clinical solutions funding,
and a potential increased demand as a result
of weather events?
Well, um, I can assure the member
that in the relatively short time
that I've been in this portfolio,
I have had nothing other than support
from my cabinet colleagues.
Um, and I would not anticipate that that would change.
Obviously. Um, uh, uh, issues are, um,
multiple across multiple portfolios,
and there is always a contest in any government, uh,
for priority for, uh, funding, uh, for, uh,
policy initiatives, uh, that's appropriate
and as it should be in a, in a, in a functioning democracy.
Uh, so yeah, it's always a contestable bit,
but, um, uh, I'm confident that, uh, should the need arise,
uh, that those issues will be certainly supported
by a government, uh, of the sort
that we are fortunate to have at the moment.
Alright. Aina
Williams do wanna ask you about open banking and scams.
Um, and for, um, open banking to work, we need everyone
to buy into it, but, um,
there's a worry from smaller players, fintechs,
that banks are gonna be able to use in entry fees as tariffs
that stifle their innovation.
Um, why haven't you pushed harder
and make account info APIs free?
Like they're in the UK
and Australia, especially when
FinTech found Carl Thompson wants
that New Zealand fees could triple the costs.
Um, I think he gave a figure from $29
to about 49 to $80 a month.
Yeah. Look, um, haven't made any final decisions on that
yet, but, um, have indicated some potential, uh, uh,
um, fee structures.
Uh, I'm very conscious
and aware of the feedback that we've had from some
of the fintechs, um, as you asked earlier,
uh, to a question.
And my response was that, um, it's very hard
to get unanimity on issues.
Um, I've had, uh, a range of feedback.
So yes, some of the fintechs are saying, you, you need
to have a model that is effectively free.
Uh, the problem with that is that there is a cost
to providing the data, uh,
and if it's free, um,
the cost actually just gets
apportioned probably somewhere else.
Um, and then it just gets, it gets hidden.
So there's a, there's a debate
and a question about transparency.
Uh, and, uh, also, um, I think there is a, a bit
of a debate about, um, uh, the
following, not, not necessarily every other jurisdiction.
New Zealand is relatively late to this open banking,
this customer data regime.
Uh, and I think the benefit we have is an opportunity
to learn from some of the mistakes
that have been made in other jurisdictions,
but also to pick up on some of the, the things
that have worked in other jurisdictions.
Now there, um, yes, in the uk it's free, uh,
but, um, that has come with some potential perverse
outcomes that haven't been entirely, um, positive.
Uh, so let's, um, sort
of continue the, continue the discussion.
I had a very good discussion with, uh,
an international expert on, um, uh, fintechs
and open banking and all that sort of stuff recently.
And I asked her of this, the, the very question.
And so I was surprised that she actually said, well,
she actually was pro fees pro pro charging.
Yeah. And if that's the case, then the question then moves
to what is the appropriate setting?
Um, and you need to find a,
a potentially a sweet, a sweet spot.
Um, so, uh, very, uh, aware and,
and alert to those, um, those issues.
Just a couple of follow ups on that, um, agree with you
that it's about finding a balance,
but on this one, I, I would guess there is a lot of goodwill
and, um, cross
Partisan support. Well, some of the banks
have already indicated
that they're going to, um, for a period of time, that's it.
No, no fees. So, so, so one of the things that
that tells me is that, uh, either
the cost to, and the banks don't tell us what the cost is
'cause that's, you know, a commercial
decision, uh, for them.
But what that tells me is that, um, if some
of the banks are saying, well, we are going
to either not charge a fee at all,
or we are going to, um, not charge a fee
for a set period of time, maybe 12 months or two years,
or something like that, that tells me that, uh,
potentially the costs to the bank may not be as high
as one might suspect.
So look, um, I, I, I, I, I was, um, very pleased
to see that those, you know, those banks making
that initiative, that's a, a token
and a gesture, I think, of goodwill.
Um, and that's to be encouraged. Yeah,
Totally. Then
my question for you is, is
that the only reason why we've only got 25 third
party providers registered?
I think, um, everyone, uh, in this room,
but also around the parliament, who really wants
to see open banking working,
would be a little bit disappointed by that.
What are the other reasons why there aren't more people
registered when you compare it to the uk?
I think it was triple that in the first year.
When are we gonna see this swinging up?
Yeah, look, I think it's, it's just early days.
Um, uh, very early on in, uh, my new role here, uh, one
of the first events, in fact, it was the first, uh,
speaking engagement I had was
to a FinTech conference in Auckland.
Uh, and I can assure you that there were, the, the, the,
the, the scale and size
and number of smart, capable, intelligent, energetic people
who are just so ready to get into this stuff is way
beyond the number of actual registration so far.
So, um, I think that's the beginning of a, a bit
of a tsunami that has yet to come. Okay.
Well, there's a red carpet
to be rolled out. It's for these guys.
Yeah. Well, like, I hope so. But, but you, I mean,
you will have met with some of these people.
Um, they are incredibly energetic,
they're incredibly excited.
Um, and you can't help
but sort of, um, feed from that energy, uh,
because it's, it's almost palpable.
Can we talk about A new, a new primary from, actually,
excuse me, ask about scams.
Oh, here we go. Um, while I choke you, talk about scams
and anything else that you may not have uh, covered already.
I know someone who lost a lot of money in a big bank scam,
you know, so yeah, just the lesson.
Okay. So look, um, as lead antis scam minister mm-hmm.
Uh, I, uh, I've been doing some work with, uh,
the, the, the, the antis scam ecosystem, if you like.
Um, and one of the things
that has impressed me enormously is the level
of goodwill from the various players in
that, in that ecosystem.
So that includes, obviously the banks,
because the banks have a role.
Uh, you know, that's usually where the rubber hits the road,
you know, sooner or later in a scam,
money leaves somebody's bank account.
So the banks are sort of the, you know,
the hurt point in, in any respects.
Um, uh, the telco companies that, uh, have the ability
to, uh, facilitate the sending of the, hi mum,
I've just got a new cell phone message now
that comes through a telco.
Um, and then you've got the digital platform providers.
Mm-hmm. And that's not just the social media people,
digital platform providers cover a, a much wider range of,
uh, entities and organizations than just, uh, just the,
the digital media, uh, sorry, the, um, social media people.
And then you've got a, a range of other,
uh, players as well.
So you've got a, a, there are several, um,
good NGOs involved.
You've obviously got a, an enforcement
and policing role provided by police.
Um, you've got, uh, a a range of, uh, uh,
stakeholder interests as well.
So I've had a couple of round tables, um,
and they've been really good.
And the thing that has impressed me most about
that is the level of goodwill
and cooperation amongst the sector.
So we've already seen as a result of that,
that the banks have come out with a new code of practice,
which, uh, gives New Zealand, uh, customers,
bank customers a higher level of protection, um,
and sets out a series of protocols, uh, that should a person
be scammed and the bank has been at fault.
It creates, uh, uh, a range of compensatory, uh, uh, rules
that are available to them.
I want to now extend that beyond the banks to, uh,
the next one would be something similar from the telcos.
And then, um, at very least
of the digital platform providers are a little bit more
tricky 'cause they're a bit more diverse.
They're not quite as, um, um, uh, uh, um, uh,
I was gonna say organized, that's the wrong word.
They are organized, but they, they don't have a,
they don't have a, um, they don't have a sort of like a,
a representative body industry grouping that, you know,
one, one point of contact.
Um, so, um,
what I would hope from the digital platform providers,
and what I've made it very clear I want from them is a level
of support and, um, uh, commitment
that they will provide New Zealanders
with no less than is being
provided in Australia, for instance.
Now, um, uh, all this is being achieved this effectively,
this partnership between these, these organizations, uh,
in a way that, um,
hasn't cost the New Zealand taxpayer any money.
We haven't had to legislate, we haven't had to regulate.
And yet we are on the cusp of achieving, uh, uh,
a very good outcome for New Zealand customers in a way
that I think is, um, quite exciting
and will ultimately lead to a safer, um,
antis scam environment for them.
But scammers are clever, they're well resourced,
they are increasingly, um, international
and to a degree, um, there is an element of sort
of whack-a-mole about, um, scams.
You sort of have to, you know, no sooner do you sort of
close one thing off,
and then something else will, will, um, pop up.
So I don't think we get to a point where we can ever sort
of rest on our laurels
and say, job done, everything's fixed.
It's, you know, it's now perfect.
I don't think that point will ever come,
but what we can do is, um, minimize the risk, uh,
and also try and protect New Zealanders as best we can.
That said, there is an element of personal responsibility,
uh, that is at play here.
Mm-hmm. And New Zealanders need, in my view,
to be more alert, more aware, more conscious,
and sometimes far less trusting of, uh,
uh, approaches that they have.
I had a, um, a situation very recently where, uh, someone
that I knows, uh, uh, their father, uh, an older, uh,
gentleman, had been scammed out of several thousand dollars.
Um, and when, um, this friend of mine said to her father,
well, dad, you know, why did you do it?
Why did you, why did you respond?
And his response was, well, it would've been rude not to.
And so there is an element that we have as New Zealanders,
uh, sometimes that we are a bit, um,
trusting we're a bit generous, and, and,
and sometimes potentially a bit polite.
There's nothing wrong with ignoring or deleting a scan
because if it's, if there's something genuine,
they'll come back to you in a more,
in a more appropriate way.
Mm-hmm. A supplementary Dr. Hamish Gimel.
Excellent. How con confident are you that we're going
to have collaboration across international jurisdiction when
it comes to scams?
'cause a lot of this is, of course, cross, cross border.
Yeah, well, look, um, yeah.
Uh, the issues relating
to scams are not unique to New Zealand.
Uh, we are, um, in some degrees, we are more of a target
for scammers, partly
because, um, we are a relatively small population.
Um, we're, um, we have, we, we use a lot
of digital equipment, um, and,
and to a degree we are, um, seen by some scanners
as a softer target than some other, some other countries.
So one of the pieces of work that, uh,
I'm doing is continuing work done by my predecessor,
and that is to engage with, um, a couple of other countries,
uh, particularly our Australian, uh, cousins.
Uh, they have of course, legislated some,
they've got some antica legislation that was passed,
I think in February of this year.
Uh, and they have,
they are now implementing the regulations that go with that.
Um, we are watching that quite closely, um,
but we're also working with Singapore, um,
and, um, my predecessor traveled to Singapore,
and, um, we've had, uh, a number of engagements.
So, um, it's fair to say that we will get more,
um, leverage in terms of antis scam response if we
act regionally rather than just as little old nz uh,
5 million people at the bottom of the South Pacific.
If we take a regional approach, we'll have, um, I think a,
a, a better potential
for reducing scam activity in, in New Zealand.
And that, in my view, would be a good thing.
But watching what other countries are doing other
jurisdictions, that's always on my radar as well.
And I, I ge generally take the view that with much
of these sorts of things, um, many of the issues
that confront us have actually been solved
and resolved in other places.
And I'm not too proud to, if necessary,
plagiarize good ideas from mm-hmm.
From other, from other jurisdictions, if, if they work
and if they're appropriate
and can, uh, be given what is effectively a Kiwi wash.
Um, and, and we, we adopt them here.
So, um, I'm open to that, that, uh, kind
of approach as well. Mm-hmm.
Supplementary and, um, what you said about
New Zealand being seen by scammers as a softer target,
I'm worried about that, but I'm also worried
that you might be seen as a bit
of a softer target minister when you've given the banks
exactly what they have been asking parties for in terms
of scams a non-regulated, non legally binding requirement
for them to, um, reimburse scams to 500 K cap when, um,
say the Singapore model that, uh, has been looked at
by this government, was resourced by the government,
it brought together police
and other, um, agencies to deal
with this problem from across government perspective,
why is it that we have probably the lightest scheme in terms
of what banks want,
and, um, very few of the protections
that consumers need when New Zealanders
and like the older chap who you talked about,
can see an advertisement paid for
that Facebook is making money out of in the internet,
and then sign up to that scam, uh,
and be taken in by that when it's something
that they think is reliable,
because it's actually something which is
being advertised to them.
Mm-hmm. Look, I think you raise a good point in terms of,
uh, particularly the digital platform providers.
Um, uh, you'll be aware how challenging
that has been, not just in New Zealand,
but around the, around the world.
Um, I take the view that, uh, um,
all these organizations need to operate with a level
of social license, and we are as New Zealanders,
and I suspect it's, again, not limited to New Zealand, but,
but we tend to be very, um, conscious
and aware of, of these things these days.
And, uh, we give away freely, voluntarily,
far too much personal information, each of us every day, um,
uh, to a whole range of, of kind of entities that live
inside our, our phones.
And we don't give it a second thought.
Uh, and yet when it comes to, uh, uh, um,
banks, for instance, or,
or to, to other sort of more traditional entities,
we get very prickly about that.
Yeah. Um, so I think that there is an ongoing need for, uh,
for New Zealanders to be alert.
Um, uh, they, the, the specific question that you ask about,
you know, why haven't we, uh, legislated
or regulated is that, um, I would rather
that we had people coming, uh, voluntarily to, um,
a point where we can achieve positive outcomes, uh,
as a first step.
Let's see how that goes.
Uh, I'm actually, actually quite optimistic.
As I said, I've been very impressed with the level of, um,
uh, systems goodwill, the ability for them to want to share,
uh, resources, information, uh, and,
and, uh, things of that nature.
One of the issues that I want to, uh, um,
test out with the, uh, ComCom is, uh,
some work around how we can, as a nation,
uh, provide collaborative input from a range
of businesses to achieve a societal good.
Um, let me give you an example.
Um, um, uh,
there is an organization called The Packaging Forum.
Uh, and some time ago in a, in a previous, um, uh, iteration
of my life, I had quite a lot to do with them.
Yep. Now, they wanted to gather together some
of their members who were involved in the fast moving
consumer goods market, uh, essentially products
that are wrapped in plastic, um,
and move quickly through our commercial economy and network.
They wanted to gather a, a, a grouping
of their members together to discuss how they could reduce,
um, single use plastic in packaging.
And there was a problem with that,
because if they got together as a, a group
of essentially competitors
and started talking about that sort of stuff,
they were potentially gonna be in breach
of the cartel rules, um, that,
that prevent competitors talking.
So there needs to be, in my view, uh, a kind of a, um,
uh, a carve out where there is a demonstrable societal good,
uh, that, uh, allows for organizations, whether
that's telcos, social media, digital providers, um, um,
you know, banks or whatever, where they are trying
to achieve, uh, a collaboration that is good for
us as a society.
Uh, I think there's an opportunity to, for, for that
to exist now, we have to find a, a, a methodology that does
that, but still protects the, the anti cartel,
um, uh, provisions. I
Love that. And, um, would
be very supportive
and keen to see that legislation progressing in now.
So I hope you are busily at work on that.
It's, as I say, I've got a very big work
program, and there are lots of, we love
An ambitious minister. There
Are lots of moving parts, uh,
and it's fair to say I've, um,
Minister, can I ask you about, I've read a
lot in the last few months that,
Uh, what you're saying with, um, container, uh,
the containers that you worked on is a very popular consumer
issue in many jurisdictions that we like
to compare ourselves to.
Most jurisdictions like ours have some form
of container assume scheme, which return scheme,
which benefits consumers.
It lets them claim back some of the money that they would
otherwise spend and feel like they are having an act into
their local recycling infrastructure.
Is that part of your forward work program?
Is that something consumers can expect from you?
We've now moved into, um, a, uh, an estimates hearing
that is more appropriate to me when I was in a former, uh,
former, uh, no, it's a consumer's policy.
It's, uh, I can assure the member that it's actually, uh,
part of the purview of the Minister for the environment,
and I know that, I think she did, she didn't appear, uh,
I think she had an appearance today
at a, at a select committee.
No. So I'm sure that probably that question was asked
of her, because that's a perennial and, uh, take it on.
Yeah. Yeah. It's a perennial, but, um,
but like I say, I thought that example of wanting to, uh,
and this was more to do with not containers.
This was just sort of packaging.
So when you go and buy a, um, I don't know, a, um, you know,
a, uh, a packet of batteries
or something, it's usually wrapped in a, in a,
a single use piece of plastic that is often hard
to actually get into, uh,
and it's discarded and then what have you.
So there are potentially other, other forms.
Now, as I said that they wanted to have, uh, a, a,
a conversation as a sector about
how they could collectively reduce single use plastic.
I would've thought that that was, uh, uh, uh, a conversation
that as New Zealanders, we would've wanted them to, to have,
um, but just by the buy, um, I should make it clear that,
um, as far as I'm aware,
they were eventually able to do that.
Um, and that those conversations did, did take place.
And I, I'm no longer involved in that portfolio area,
so I haven't followed it particularly closely since.
But I particularly remember that that was an issue
that involved them getting legal advice
and all, all that sort of stuff about,
because they just needed to protect themselves.
All right. Uh, new Prime from, um, Dr. Hamish.
Thank you, minister. Um,
how is the Commerce Commission being supported, uh,
to better address anti, uh, competition conduct?
Well, um, um, they,
they're being supported in the way that, um,
I think all governments, no matter what particular, uh, hue
or color they have, they're, they're being supported
because we resource them appropriately.
Uh, we need to ensure that they have access
to the right level of professional legal,
and, um, uh, structural advice.
Um, the issue that I particularly, um, alluded
to earlier on in my opening comments was the review
that d Paula Restock has been leading into, uh,
the governance of, uh, Hong Kong
and I think that is an, that is an issue.
We've got a, we've had a, we've had a bit of a, um, uh,
a habit, uh, in New Zealand of just, uh, keeping,
adding things onto compo.
Mm-hmm. Um, most recently we've asked them
to do some walk work on, uh, regulation of services.
Uh, that's just another, another thing
that we've kind of tacked on.
Um, Dane, Paula has, uh,
or her, sorry, her review committee,
'cause it's not just Dane, Paula,
there were two other members.
Um, they have made I think,
some quite useful recommendations
that I'm currently looking at and, and,
and will respond to in due course.
Uh, some of that is structural about
how best the ComCom can be set up, uh,
and operationalized in a way that's gonna ensure that, um,
the work that they do, that the, uh, legal
and legislative, um, tasks that we, uh, insist
that they do can be done efficiently, uh, and,
and with the best outcome.
So, um, a fair bit of work,
but ComCom is an important institution within
the framework of this.
Um, not only this portfolio,
but within the framework of, uh,
the New Zealand regulatory system.
Um, I think they do a,
a very good job sometimes under difficult circumstances.
Uh, but we need to make sure that they're set up to be fit
for purpose, uh, that they're future proof, uh,
and that they are sufficiently agile
and nimble enough to do the job that we,
as New Zealanders are asking them to do.
Alright. A final question from,
um, I know William
Melissa, I'm just gonna take a couple of minutes
to ask your officials some questions about, um,
the government's intentions around supermarkets.
Structural scrutiny has been indicated by the government.
What can we as a committee expect, um,
from government working through, um, the request
for information around, um, the requests
for information about how structural separation might, uh,
play out in the New Zealand market?
What sources are being relied on so we can be more familiar
with the information environment that you are using?
Um, and what can we do to prepare ourselves going forward
for something that would look, um, quite dramatic if it, if,
if those options were taken?
Thanks. Yes.
I'm just wondering, Madam Chair,
I don't feel comfortable being in the room while
that question is being answered, and I'm wondering if the
leave of the committee, um, um, if I could be just excused
and, and not be sort of noted that I, uh, exited the room.
Sure. And also, I would like to clarify that, um,
though it's a different minister
because it's, it sits under this ward, um, still, um,
that the officials are unstable under this ward. Yeah.
So, um, with the leave of the committee, thank
You very much time. Thank, thank you, minister.
Thank you. Yeah.
Uh, thank you.
Uh, so as you are aware, um, the government put out an RI,
uh, which was seeking, um, advice
and information from both existing participants
and those who might want, wish to be participants about
what some of the issues that they saw, um, in terms
of operating in the New Zealand market might be, uh,
what the barriers were
and might, what might facilitate their entry.
You know, what, what, what would it take
to get more entrance to the market?
Uh, had a number of, of, um, responses to that.
RFI, uh, we've
provided some analysis for that, uh,
to the responsible minister.
Uh, she is currently, uh, working through that,
thinking about what the options are in terms of, you know,
responding to those blockages, uh, contemporaneously, she's,
uh, I think publicly stated that she's asked us for,
to do some thinking around, uh,
what some structural options might be.
So she wants to have a full range of,
of levers available to her on the table.
Uh, no decisions have been taken at this stage. Yeah.
Um, I guess what I was trying to ask is, um,
that structural preparation piece, uh, granted
that you'll have a lot of information, um,
becoming available from potential entrants or competitors
or probably small businesses who are affected
by the monopsony power.
Um, but I'm asking about how you, how do you,
and how do we get an insight into the effect
of structural breakup when that is something that, um,
isn't dependent on, um, the sort of information
that would be provided by external stakeholders?
It's really, we are really dependent on, um,
government advice for that and the work that ComCom
Has done. Yeah. And we have
in the past done cost benefit assessments
of the range because there's more than one way
to, to think about structure.
Yeah. Uh, we've previously, uh,
for the previous government did some work on that.
Uh, we will be refreshing our thinking around that and,
and thinking, and without going into the detail, as I say,
there's, there's many ways to skin a cat in terms
of thinking about the things that you could do.
We'll provide advice, uh, to, to government as, as requested
around the range of those things, including estimates around
consumer and producer surplus, where that falls.
Okay. What the impacts of dynamic effects will be over time.
Uh, what the impacts of, uh,
relative productive efficiency might be versus the dynamic,
um, allocated efficiencies
that you might see from any of those changes. That's really
Helpful. Okay. One
more, we'll have to, we'll have to finish there.
Thank you so much. Thank.